Welcome to the first episode of the Software Freedom Podcast.
Starting with this episode, we will talk once a month with people who have inspiring
ideas about software freedom.
This podcast is presented to you by the Free Software Foundation Europe.
We are a charity that empowers users to control technology.
My name is Matthias Kirschner, and I'm the president of the FSFE.
And my name is Katharina Okun.
I am a writer and digital rights activist, bass, and Berlin.
When we were planning the first episode, we exchanged some ideas for possible guests.
And when I heard that the day against DRM will this year take place in October, I directly
thought we have to get Cory Doctoro as our first guest, and we have to talk with him
about digital restriction management.
I think they are just very few people that inspired so many people from our community like
Cory did.
For those listeners who don't know him, Cory Doctoro is a British-Canadian writer and
political activist, and he is the co-editor of Boeing Boeing Net.
He is a prominent supporter of the idea of software freedom, and he is fighting for a less restrictive
copyright law.
His books are published under Creative Commons licenses.
These science fiction novels of Cory are all strongly connected to the debates on technology
and regulation.
What I like about his books is that they address complex issues such as software freedom,
copyright, digital restriction management, or privacy in an unconventional way.
So even someone who has never thought about these topics before, they can follow him.
And at the same time as someone who is active in those fields for a long time, you always
find interesting ways how to explain these topics better to others.
As a privacy activist, my favorite book of Cory is, of course, Little Brother.
The book was published in 2008 and tells the story of four teenagers from San Francisco
who experience how society is more and more transformed into a surveillance state after
a terrorist attack.
Together with our friends, these teenagers start an underground campaign for defending
civil liberties against the Department of Homeland Security.
I don't want to spoil you, but I like the end very much.
What do you like most about the book?
Definitely the way how Cory described how the protagonists of a story circumvent surveillance
technology were very simple hacks.
For example, right in the beginning, there is a passage where they explain how to trick
an intelligent surveillance camera that can recognize people based on how they walk.
They simply put small stones in their shoes in order to change their walking patterns.
And by the way, did you know that at what's known, had a copy of Little Brother prominently
placed in his hotel room in Hong Kong when he did his first interviews for the documentary
Citizen Four?
I guess this was his way of telling the world.
If you want to understand why I did this, please read this book.
And you definitely should read this book if you haven't read it already.
It's a fantastic book.
What's your favorite book?
I like Little Brother.
I like Homeland, but at the moment, it's unauthorized spread his new book.
And in this book, Salima, who's a refugee, she lives in the U.S. and she's in the situation
that her toaster refuses to toast her bread for her one morning.
She finds out that the company, the manufacturer of the toaster, they went bankrupt and their
servers are down.
So the toaster, which before always checked if you can toast this bread or not, which is
authorized or not, those others aren't there anymore.
So she's not able to toast the bread, which is authorized as well as any other toast.
Oh my God.
She doesn't stop there.
So she continues to investigate and finds out that there are others with the same problem
and that they fleshed other software on those toasters and then they could toast any
bread they want.
So she also does that and enjoys this new freedom.
And she helps other people in this building and shows them how they can modify their devices
and they all enjoy buying bread they want or baking bread and toasting it.
So she's very happy about this development, how she can help others around her to also
benefit from modifications there.
Later, it turns out that well, what she did was illegal.
They are not allowed to make changes to the software there on those devices in the building
and there are legal threats about this.
And I don't want to spoil you too much.
So read the book, but this part it reminded me about when we at the FSFE helped others
in our free Android campaign to flesh software on their mobile phones.
So use free software there and get rid of some restrictions they had on their mobile phones
before.
Seeing how people react towards that and how happy they are with those devices, but on
the same hand also seeing that modifying software on devices is getting harder and harder
in some areas.
What do you think makes Corrie's story so special?
For me, it's that he has those role models in his books like in Little Brother, you have
Marcus and Angela who don't accept that technology just restricts them.
They get active themselves and they make changes to technology and defend civil liberties.
And now with an authorized bread, the special part there is that Salima is a refugee.
She's in a bad situation there, but she doesn't accept that.
She changes things and tries to improve her situation for herself and for others.
It's very important that you have such role models for younger people in our society,
for underprivileged people in our societies.
So that's why I like this book a lot and the characters in there.
So I hope you all understand now why we instantly agreed on Corrie Dockro as the perfect guest
for the first episode of the software freedom podcast.
We are very excited to have them with us today and talk with them about this new book
and digital restriction management.
Welcome, Corrie.
Thank you very much for being with us today.
So you want said that the idea for your book, an authorized bread was based on an article
you wrote back in 2015 for the Guardian.
The title was, if dishwasher were iPhones.
Can you explain what this article was about?
For many years, I'd heard from people to say that it was no real imposition for Apple
to have created this world garden business model where in order to use a device they sold
you, you had to also let them decide which software you could use.
And they made all kinds of arguments about why this was legitimate.
They said it kept you safe.
They said it protected software authors from copyright infringement.
They said that it simplified the paradox of choice and so on.
And it seemed to me that if all of that was actually true, then they could have just
had a little tick box that said, actually, I'd prefer to choose my own software rather
than relying on Apple to make that choice for me.
And it also seemed to be belied by the fact that Apple had tightened the screws many
times.
They had changed the guidelines about what kind of apps you could have.
So they had unilaterally decided that some software authors expression was not lawful
for inclusion in the app store.
We had most notoriously someone who'd made an app that kept track of drone strikes that
the US government launched and specifically the civilian death count from those drone strikes.
And Apple had repeatedly excluded that from the app store.
And so it seemed to me that if this was something people really liked, they would have just
opted for it.
But instead, you know, between the drone strikes and the people who kept trying to create
independent software stores and the users who kept trying to drill jailbreak their phones,
it was pretty clear that actually software vendors and software authors and iPhone owners
were many of them not very happy with this at all.
And the common rejoinder was, well, then why are they in the iPhone ecosystem?
They should be choosing a different platform.
And that argument all seemed very inadequate to me.
And so I thought, you know, there are plenty of other appliances that you could make this
argument about.
And specifically, dishwashers are a really good example because the most dangerous thing
you can do really is eat bad food.
Foodborne illness has killed more people than anything else in the history of the world.
And certainly there's a lot of people who make their living from coming up with independent
dishware designs who then have to contend with copycats who clone their dishes and so
on.
And I thought every one of these arguments would apply equally well to dishwashers.
And so I wrote this little fake letter from Steve Jobs like CEO to his customers explaining
why they should stop trying to put non authorized dishes in their special fancy dishwashers.
And how these special fancy dishwashers had been exquisitely calibrated to reduce water
wastage and ensure that foodborne illnesses were eliminated and to reward people who made
dishes and to give them, you know, the incentives they needed to continue to innovate in flatware
and dishes and so on.
And I wrote this essay and what was interesting to me about it at the in the moment was just
how many iOS users failed to get the joke and instead acted like an affronted religious
minority whose sacred texts had just been mocked.
And then subsequently, how close that rhetoric ended up hewing to internet of things device
companies.
So, you know, if you listen to the rhetoric from the likes of the, you know, the founder
of juice, Sarah, which is the company that made the juice squeezers that use DRM to fruit
or the rhetoric from other IoT companies, you know, they all made essentially those arguments.
You know, this is pose law that satire is indistinguishable from reality and in undermodern
conditions.
And so, you know, that turned into unauthorized bread or at least the proximate instigation
for writing unauthorized bread.
This idea that there really wasn't any reason given the internet of things not to turn
everything into an iOS style app store for the clothes that a wash in your washing machine
and the dishes that a wash in your dishwasher and the bread that will toast in your toaster.
This month's stay against the RM focuses on ebooks.
What does the difference between a book and an ebook with DRM?
Well, a book is something that actually has a somewhat nebulous definition.
If you think back on the history of books, all of the things that we might say would be,
you know, critical to defining a book actually are not present in some pretty important examples.
So for example, we might say that a book has to have a spine.
It has to be a codex that is to say shaped like a book as we know it today.
But you know, the Torah, which is one of the first and most widely published books in the
history of the world, originally was a scroll that didn't have a spine and we still call
it a book.
Or we might say that a book needs to have writing or pictures in it, but we have blank
books.
So we might say that a book has to cost something, but you know, the most widely available
books in the world are free, you know, Bibles and copies of the little red book and so on.
So book is a pretty expansive category.
Certainly electronically, we've expanded the definition of books by blowing up some
of the physical constraints that were associated with them, you know, Wikipedia I think qualifies
as an electronic book.
And so do, you know, I just downloaded a PDF last week for Dungeons and Dragons, Game Masters
who want to ensure that they have consent from their players for situations that might
be emotionally difficult for them.
And that book was eight pages long.
And it's hard to imagine a printed book that's eight pages long.
And so we've eliminated the length constraints, we've eliminated some of the media constraints,
we have books with moving images and audio and so on.
But once you add DRM, something really changes, because although books are very ancient
and although books are seriously something that is part of our cultural heritage and how
we identify as a culture, you know, when when you want to show a civilization that's
falling apart, you just show pictures of books on fire, you know, anytime someone piles
up a bunch of books and sets them on fire, you can be pretty sure that nothing good is
going to come of that.
But a lot of that covenant that goes around books, that is that is critical to what we think
of when we think of a book, is not present in an ebook.
So books are older than copyright and they're also older than commerce.
And they're certainly older than the idea of the unitary author.
The first books were conglomerates of text by multiple authors bound up together.
And the way that you would contribute to authorship was by, you know, copying out some of those
passages and then adding some of your own or finding other passages that seem relevant
to you and so on.
All of those things are part of the ancient compact that makes books so valuable, so important,
so so enduring.
But once you add DRM to a book, those things that were historically part of the natural
life of a book, whether that's having the book read aloud or being able to give away
the book or being able to lend the book or being able to tear passages out of a book
that offend you, all of those things just disappear.
And instead, what you end up with is a book that is regulated first by legal code, usually
by a license agreement that sometimes even longer than the book itself, especially when
you factor in the sub license agreements associated with the e-reader and the operating
system and so on, you might end up with 100,000 words of legal use that you're expected
to understand in order to operate the book within the confines of the law.
And then you have technical strictures that actually prevent you from deciding which
e-reader you're going to read the book on, from deciding whether or not you're going
to transfer the ownership of that book to your children or give it away to a local school.
All of those things that are part of the bargain of the book just go up in smoke as soon
as you add DRM to the book.
My feeling is that people would often never accept the same restrictions, they accept
with their e-books for their normal books. Why do you think this is the case?
That was kind of the point of the, if dishwasher's were iPhones and an authorized bread,
that we have been put in very slowly boiling water, like the analogy of the frogs and boiling
water. And we haven't noticed, it's kind of crept up on us that the rights that we value
in our books have been taken away from us one at a time very slowly.
And you know, this isn't just because we weren't paying attention, it's also because a lot of
these problems are a long way away, right? Like what you do with the book at the end of your life
is for the average book owner a long way off. And it's also hard to learn from that lesson
once you're dead. And so you kind of have to witness say your beloved parents beautifully,
curated library being vanished in a puff of smoke, thanks to a license agreement,
or because the company that made the DRM server for it decided to take that server down
in order for you to learn the lesson and revisit your own choices about what you buy.
And you know, in general, we rely not on people learning lessons the hard way, a long way off.
In order to keep us safe, we often ask states to intervene by say declaring certain business
practices illegal or certain contractual terms to be unenforceable. And neither of those are
on our horizon at the moment when it comes to DRM. When Microsoft closed their bookstore,
users could not access the books anymore they had bought. Do you know other examples?
Yeah, well Walmart did the same thing I think in 2007, but the Federal Trade Commission actually
intervened at that point and ordered them to keep the DRM servers running. I don't know if they're
still up and going, but you know, Amazon is what, 20 years old. And I'm literally sitting next to
a bookshelf full of books that are four, five, and six times older than that. So the idea that we're
going to just rely on Amazon to never get bored of running its DRM servers or never be say financially
engineered into bankruptcy as so many companies have in recent years, including companies that are
hundreds of years old, seems completely unrealistic. I mean, one of the arguments is often that
artists cannot make any money with our digital restriction management. Now as an author yourself,
what do we say about this argument? Well, it's very hard to parse that argument out. So one of the
things that makes DRM so pernicious is that it's protected under the law in the EU article 6 of the
2001 copyright directive. And in the US section 1201 of the 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act,
both prohibit bypassing DRM even for a lawful purpose. And whenever, you know, I've been in
policy forums, whether that's at Weipo or in Brussels or in Washington, DC or in standards bodies
like DVBCPCM or the broadcast flag body, the broadcast protection discussion group. And I've
proposed that we make it lawful to bypass DRM for lawful purposes. The answer has been that if we
don't maintain the illegality of bypassing DRM, that DRM will be defeated by users. And then I say,
but isn't DRM the technical countermeasure that stops people from copying it? And when you dig
into it, what you find out is that nobody who makes DRM believes that DRM stops users from
making copies. What they think is that it allows firms to invoke the law to prohibit otherwise
lawful conduct, right? It doesn't stop pirates in other words, but it stops competitors. You know,
if you want to pirate DVDs and watch them on your computer, it's not hard to rip them. But if you
want to make a gadget that allows you to say, watch out of region DVDs or to rip them to put them
on your computer and you want to sell them in a store, right? If you want to sell a product that
does lawful things, the fact that you have to bypass the DRM to do it allows the company to invoke
the law to shut you down. So if you're an author and you think that what DRM is going to do is stop
the people who don't want to pay from your books from getting copies them for free, the very people
who make the DRM for those books will tell you that it has no connection with doing that. If you
kind of pin them down, you have to wrestle them for a bit. But then they'll admit it. And sometimes,
you know, they'll fall back on this argument that, oh, well, it's a speed bump. But nobody pretends
that speed bumps stop racers, boy racers from racing down the street. Or they'll say that it keeps
the honest users honest that when you encounter the DRM and it tells you, I'm sorry, you're not allowed
to do that. That if you're honest, you'll go, oh, well, I didn't realize that that was prohibited.
But of course, if you're honest, doing things that are lawful is not dishonest, you know, buying a DVD
or an ebook from one supplier and then watching it on a device made by another supplier is neither
dishonest nor unlawful. It's just bypassing the DRM that's unlawful. So this is how Ed Felton,
who's now, I believe with the Federal Trade Commission, used to be a Princeton came to coin the
memorable phrase that keeping an honest user honest is like keeping a tall user tall. That what
the honest user is doing is by definition honest. That's what makes them an honest user. And so if your
DRM gets in their way, you are prohibiting them from doing something honest. So really, what it ends
up doing is it ends up locking you the rights holder, the creator, into the platform of the company.
And the company is not on your side, right? Amazon does not exist to enrich creators. Amazon's
goal is to minimize its costs everywhere that it's possible to do so and maximize its profits.
And you see them doing this relentlessly in every business that they enter. And so while it may be
true that Amazon offers some kind of teaser rate for you to do a Kindle original or to allow them
to put Kindle DRM on your books or to go into Audible, which is their audiobook platform, which controls
90% of the market and doesn't allow you to opt out of their DRM. That once they have control over
that market, they're going to do what every other firm does when they gain control over their
suppliers. They're going to squeeze the supplier. And that's you. And so, you know, if you decide
later on that you don't want to be an audible author because someone else like Google Play or
Libro.fm or downpour is offering you a better price. You have to not only pull your books from Amazon.
You also have to bet that your listeners or your readers will throw away the books that they've bought
and buy them again on the new platform or maintain two separate non-interoperable libraries of books.
So you effectively increase the switching costs for your customers to follow you to any platform
that offers you a better deal. So, you know, it's like if you were a musician and you released all
of your records in a format that only Sony devices could play. And then later on Universal offered
you a better deal, you would have to trust that your listeners were willing to throw away all the
records you sold them. Well, that is not a good bet. And not many musicians would be in a position
to make that demand on their customers. And so, over time, you're just making yourself more and more
indebted to these big, rapacious corporations that only everyone to figure out how to get more
money for themselves and less money for you from the creative labor that you do. You know, if someone,
as I've said before, someone puts a lock on something that belongs to you and then won't give you
the key, that lock is not there for you. That lock is there for them. And you know, if you go to
Amazon and say, I don't want to sell my audiobooks with your DRM anymore, they'll say go find someone
else to carry your audiobooks because we only sell audiobooks that are locked to our platform
so that every customer that you bring to us becomes our customer instead of yours.
I mean, this sounds really absurd. If you build DRM systems, you have to treat your customer
as a potential attacker of your system. What is the impact of DRM on the security of our devices?
Yeah, so this is the other issue here. One of the things that arises from this law,
Article 6 of the EUCD and Section 121 of the DMCA, is that because they make it both a civil
and potentially criminal offense to help people bypass a DRM system, they also have the side
effect of making it illegal to publish full security analyses of these products. If you find a
defect in a system with DRM in it and in order to do your proof of concept code and describe the
defect so thoroughly that the manufacturer can't deny it because manufacturers are very, very prone
to simply denying it or minimizing it when they're called out on their security mistakes because
they don't want to be embarrassed in public and they don't want their products, reputations to suffer.
So if you want to publish the industry standard for a security report, which is to
enumerate the defect and provide proof of concept code so that other people can replicate your work,
then you potentially face both criminal and civil liability for revealing those defects.
So effectively, although DRM starts off as a means to control customers' behavior by controlling
what products competitors can manufacture, it becomes a means for controlling critics as well,
for controlling people who discover mistakes that you made in implementing your technology
and who want to warn your customers that the device that they have, which inevitably does more
than entertain them, inevitably it has sensors and it has lots of personal identifying information
and it has ways to access your local network and the other devices on it and so on,
that if you want to warn people about the defects in that device, you have to be willing to brave
retribution, legal retribution from the company whose products you are criticizing.
And you know, I am enough of a free speech purist to think that telling the truth about defects in
products should always be legal, but even if you disagree with me and you think that there might be
some legitimate restrictions on when defects in products can be revealed so that manufacturers can
patch the bugs before the bugs are made public say. I think most reasonable people would agree
that companies that stand to lose from true reports of defects in their products
are not good custodians of that bad news. And one of the things that's happened as a consequence
of the expansion of DRM and to other devices, which is itself a consequence of the expansion
of software and to other devices. Once you have software and a device, you can add DRM to it.
Once you add DRM to it, the log gives you the right to stop your competitors from removing that
DRM or tampering with that DRM to let your customers get more out of their lawfully acquired property
is that the constellation of devices that are also off limits to full security audits keeps on
growing keeps getting bigger and bigger. And that means that we are at an ever greater risk
of the security defects festering in these devices until they're so widely exploited that finally
the manufacturer can no longer pretend that they don't exist by which point it's far too late.
So we've already seen this happen. The most notorious example was in 2005 when Sony BMG music
6 million CDs comprising 51 audio titles that had a secret DRM system on them that maliciously
and covertly changed your operating system so that it could no longer see certain programs
and could no longer terminate them when they were running any program that had the string dollar
sign sys dollar sign at the start of its file name would be invisible to both the file and process
managers. And then what they did was they wrote anti CD ripping programs to your computer that would
start automatically at start up time that started with the string dollar sign sys dollar sign so
that you couldn't run CD ripping programs. The thing is that as soon as this was discovered in the
wild but before it was reported to the general public as soon as as independent researchers started
to discover this including independent researchers who made malicious software malicious software
started to emerge that had the same string at the beginning of a dollar sign sys dollar sign.
And so now we had malicious software running on computers that couldn't be detected or shut down
by anti virus software and by the time the researchers who discovered this finally came forward
because there was a three month delay between the initial discovery and then coming forward by the
time they finally came forward this malicious software was present on 200,000 government and
military networks in the U.S. alone. And so all of those computers had been exposed to this risk.
And all of those use those paid for being attacked. Yeah I mean talk about adding insult to injury.
I mean we sometimes hear this this cry that you can't compete with free and so you know how can
a legitimate product compete with the pirate edition. And I think the reality is that however hard
it might be to compete with free it's much harder to compete with free if your product is much
worse than the free product. After all when you pirate your ebooks or movies or games you get
exactly the same game you just don't get the restrictions. And so that is always going to be a
better product than the product that comes with the DRM on it. And some years of rich vacuum cleaner
and coffee machine might be connected to the internet. What rules do we need for the so-called
internet of things to make sure that technology will empower us instead of restricting us?
You know I think we can define this problem as being in two parts. So the first one is
what do we need to get rid of to help people, companies, cooperatives, researchers and others
solve the problem. And the other is what rules should we have so that the problems don't come up.
And the rules that we should have they're kind of hard to pin down because these devices will
have a wide variety of characteristics and a wide variety of use cases and models.
But what we shouldn't do is actually a lot easier and also easier to agree on more broadly
and therefore easier to implement because you know it should be much easier to get consensus on them.
So I think at like a bare minimum we should say that it should always be lawful to report defects
in devices under every circumstance. That telling the truth revealing true facts about defects
in devices or services should 100% of the time be lawful. I think the second one
is that it should always be lawful or that there should be an absolute defense in law
for interoperability and for repair which is a subcategory of interoperability. So in other words
you should be able to defend yourself against any legal claim by showing that you are making a new
product or service that connected to the old product or service to allow the users of that
product or service to get more value out of them. So if someone brings a patent claim or
a terms of service claim or a cybersecurity claim or a torsious interference contractual claim
against you you should be able to say I made a product that improved the lives of the people who
used this a grief parties product. I should therefore be immunized from any legal liability and
courts should be able to assess that defense and if it is a bona fide defense should dismiss
any case against you civil or criminal. I think that's really really important because it allows
us to imagine a device that has the positive features of a DRM device and whose negative features
or whose anti features get removed by users or by the experts that the users nominate to act on
their behalf whether that's a competing company or an open or free software project or cooperative
or just a repair shop or a neighbor who reconfigures their device for them. So in other words the problem
with Facebook for example is not that everyone you know has been made easy to find so that you can
have a conversation with them. The problem is that Facebook has hostages not users and so if we
made it legal to make a new service that went and got all the messages waiting for you on Facebook
and filled them in into this new service so that you could reply to them there without having to
be a Facebook user so you could stay in touch with all your old friends and we immunized you against
all the claims that Facebook might bring against you under patent or terms of service or contractual
interference or torsious interference or what have you then the people who were on Facebook because
they liked it could stay there and the people who are on Facebook because the people they wanted to
talk to were stuck there could leave and still stay in touch with their friends. We wouldn't necessarily
have to mandate that Facebook follows some kind of interoperability standard although that might be
good too we could in addition to whatever floor we put on Facebook's interoperability make sure that
Facebook wasn't allowed to put a ceiling on that interoperability make sure that Facebook wasn't allowed
to say well you know we're adhering to this interoperability standard we let these three companies that
we don't think of as competitors interoperate with us in ways that we don't view as harmful to our
bottom line therefore we are interoperable instead you could you could have an unlimited ceiling
for interoperability provided that it was in the service of helping users get more out of their
experience and you know this is something that we call adversarial interoperability not just interoperability
with cooperation from an existing firm or service but interoperability despite the objections
and bypassing the countermeasures of an existing product or service so adversarial interoperability
and an absolute defense for adversarial interoperability are both really important as is being able
to tell the truth about defects now in terms of what rules we might impose on firms there's been a lot
work around this you know we've seen things like right to repair legislation we've seen rules
that require firms to hand over clear texts of files for people of disabilities or people who work
in archival or educational context in order to allow them to make lawful uses that are enshrined
in copyright law to avail themselves the limitations and exceptions of copyright law and I think
those are important too I just think that in very concentrated industries that it's likely that
they will figure out ways to game that and so we have to make sure that these affirmative rights
that we grant to people to have certain interoperability standards in the products that they use or
consumer rights in the products that they use not become the the maximum but instead that they
remain the minimum that companies are required to do one question I had this your few about if you
think that DRM is mainly a problem for poor people you know I think with every technological idea
with every bad technological idea you can't just roll it out all at once because some people when
they complain they get listened to right some people's complaints have real social currency so you
know things that you do to rich powerful people are harder to get away with than things that you do
to poor people or people who lack power and so when we have a terrible technological idea one of the
ways that we normalize it and also that we figure out how to make it more palatable to people is we
start by imposing it on people who don't have social power so we start by imposing it on refugees
children poor people prisoners mental patients immigrants students blue collar workers gig economy
workers and then once it's been normalized and once the roughest edges have been sanded down
then we roll it out to everybody I call it the bad technology adoption curve and you know you
can see it at work for example with with home automation so you know 20 years ago if you were
eating your dinner and there was a camera over the table watching you eat it was because you were
in a super max prison but today it's because you bought Google Home or Apple Home or Amazon
home automation systems and so we've gone from the most powerless people in our society to the
most powerful people in our society in less than a generation and so I don't think science
fiction is a great predictive literature I think science fiction is a great way to understand
the present but not the future but if you do want to get a glimpse at what the future likely holds
for you should everything else go on in terms of your technology use just look at what we're doing
to poor people and then that's what we're going to do to you in 10 or 15 years science fiction literature
always had a strong impact on how society sees technology yet the most successful science fiction
books that connect to present developments are dystopian stories do we maybe need more positive
stories about how technology could improve our lives you know I am neither a dystopian nor a
utopian I'm which is to say I'm neither a pessimist nor an optimist I think that in the words of
Michael Weinberger when he wrote this classic white paper on copyrights patents and 3D printing
this will all be so great if we don't screw it up I often say that that's what I want written
on my tombstone you know although my wife and I have actually secretly agreed that my tombstone
is going to say if a man lies six feet underground rotting and dead and his wife isn't there to tell
him he's doing it wrong is he still wrong and her tombstone is going to say yes he is but but
failing that my tombstone is going to say this will all be so great if we don't screw it up and I
think that it is important in science fiction to write about how terrible it will be if we screw it
up and it's also important to write about how great it can be if we if we seize the means of
computation so you know you ask me about my my new book radicalize which has the story on authorized
bread in it and you know those are stories for the most part not just about the dystopian notion
of having your technology do to you instead of doing for you but they're also about the real
marveling glory of being in charge of your own technology of being able to decide what the
technology does of being able to reconfigure it to do what you want when you want it to and you know
I think that both of those are really important and I think that it's a mistake to say that just
because just because a story has dystopian themes or depicts the dystopian nature of having the
technology work against you instead of on your behalf that therefore the story is dystopian what
really matters is what the characters do in the face of that if they go on to seize control then
that's rather a utopian story and so I I'm of the view that there's nothing wrong with having a
story who's starting premise is that the technology's control is taken away from us particularly if
it's also a story about how wonderful it is once you reverse that situation thank you very much
Corey for being with us today for this first episode okay thank you feeling drunk give my
love to everybody there thanks for the work you're doing thank you for your time all right bye bye
if you want to get active on this topic you can support the day against DRM which takes place
every year this campaign is organized by the free software foundation or assist organization
based in the US if you want to receive more information please visit defectivebydesign.org
on this website you'll also find a list of DRM free platforms for books videos and audio files
this was the first episode of the software freedom podcast if you like this episode please
recommend it to your friends and subscribe to make sure you also get the next episode
this podcast is presented to you by the free software foundation job we have a charity that
works on promoting software freedom if you like our work please consider supporting us with
the nation you find more information on my.fsfe.org slash donate thanks for listening to the software
freedom podcast looking forward to next month bye bye